---
title: Flycheck 0.24
---

Flycheck 0.24 is released with many new syntax checkers and new options, and
filtering for the errors.

This post highlights the most important changes and features.  For a detailed
list of all changes please take a look at the [changelog](/changes.html).

### Table of contents ###
{:.no_toc}

- Table of contents
{:toc .toc}

Breaking changes
================

This release drops support for Emacs 24.1 and 24.2.  If you are still using
these versions, you will see an error message about package `emacs-24.3` being
unavailable when you try to upgrade Flycheck.  Older releases of Flycheck
continue to work on Emacs 24.1 and 24.2, but it is recommended that you update
to the latest stable release 24.5.

This release also removes the Elixir syntax checker because it executes the code
being checked, which can lead to various problems and imposes a slight security
risk.

Language support
================

Flycheck now supports Groovy, Jade and SQL (in the PostgreSQL dialect).

C/C++
-----

Flycheck provides an option to set the include path of CPPCheck.

DMD
---

The DMD syntax checker now has an option to pass arbitrary arguments to DMD.

Emacs Lisp
----------

Flycheck does not report duplicate checkdoc errors on Emacs 25 anymore.

Erlang
------

Flycheck now provides options to set the include and library path for Erlang.

Haskell
-------

A new syntax checker `haskell-ghc-stack` runs GHC through the new
[stack](https://github.com/commercialhaskell/stack) tool, which simplifies
Haskell setup considerably.

The `haskell-hlint` syntax checker now provides options for ignore rules,
language extensions and hint packages, and reads `HLint.hs` configuration files.

Javascript
----------

Flycheck now supports [JSCS](http://jscs.info),
[standard](https://github.com/feross/standard) and
[semistandard](https://github.com/Flet/semistandard), and properly finds JSHint
configuration files now.

Perl
----

Flycheck now provides an option to set the include path for Perl.

Rust
----

Flycheck now allows to pass arbitrary flags and arguments to `rustc`.

Error list
==========

The error list now provides means to filter the list by error levels.  The new
option `flycheck-error-list-minimum-level` denotes the minimum level of errors
show in the error list.  The new command `flycheck-error-list-set-filter` (bound
to `f`) lets you to change the filter.

Help, documentation and debugging
=================================

Flycheck now shows chained syntax checkers in Help buffers for syntax checkers.

The verification result from `M-x flycheck-verify-setup` now includes an
explicitly selected checker if any.  The new command `flycheck-verify-checker`
allows to check whether a specific syntax checker works, and `M-x
flycheck-select-checker` now shows a verification buffer if Flycheck fails to
use the selected checker.
