---
title: Flycheck 0.25
---

On this sad day we would like to announce the release of Flycheck 0.25.  We
would like to dedicate this release to the victims of the atrocious terror
attacks in Paris.  Our heart goes out to the people who lost their lives last
night, and we would like to express our deep felt compassion to their friends
and families.

Among many small fixes and improvements this release adds support for passing
buffer contents on standard input, improves error display and provides an
interface to support Nix OS’ peculiar handling of packages and executables.  For
a detailed list of all changes please take a look at the
[changelog](/changes.html).

### Table of contents ###
{:.no_toc}

- Table of contents
{:toc .toc}

Breaking changes
================

The `scala-stylestyle` syntax checker now expects a `scalastyle` executable in
`exec-path` now.  The `flycheck-scalastyle-jar` option which used to provide the
location of the Scalastyle JAR file was removed.  This change makes `scalastyle`
as easy to setup as any other syntax checker in Flycheck—on OS X it’s just a
`brew install scalastyle` away.

The `racket` syntax checker for the Racket programming language was removed,
because it might possibly evaluate input code during syntax checking which
constitutes a security risk.  Consequently Flycheck does not support Racket
anymore. We are sorry for any inconveniences caused by this change.

`ruby-yaml` dropped support for the legacy YAML implementations prior to Ruby
1.9.3.  This should hopefully not affect anymore—you do use a modern Ruby, don’t
you?

Standard input
==============

Flycheck now allows syntax checkers to receive buffer contents on standard
input, obviating the need for temporary files.  As far as possible all built-in
syntax checkers now receive their input on standard input.  We hope that this
finally solves many adverse interactions between Flycheck’s in-place temporary
files and build tools that inspect or watch the source tree which occurred
frequently particularly with Javascript syntax checkers.

If you wrote your own syntax checkers or maintain packages that define syntax
checkers we strongly encourage you to migrate your syntax checkers to use
standard input.  A [previous post about standard input support]({% post_url 2015-10-27-standard-input-for-syntax-checkers %})
provides more information and help for migrating.

Language support
================

AsciiDoc
--------

Demote deprecation warnings to `info` level.

Coq
---

Fix error patterns of Coq to properly parse different kinds of multi-line
errors.

Fortran
-------

Add support for the new error output format of GFortran 5.

Go
--

Add new options for `go build`: `flycheck-go-build-tags` specifies a list of
tags to check, and `flycheck-go-install-deps` allows to automatically install Go
dependencies while checking Go code.

Haskell
-------

Cache GHC binary output in temporary directory to improve speed and support for
Template Haskell.

Add a new option `flycheck-hlint-args` to give arbitrary command line arguments
to Hlint and fix a possible stack overflow that could occur while parsing
complex Hlint error messages.

Javascript
----------

Add support for JSX Mode to Javascript syntax checkers that support JSX
(`eslint`, `jsx` and `jscs`).

JSON
----

Add a new JSON syntax checker using Python’s built-in JSON module.  This
provides basic JSON syntax checking without requiring additional tools on
systems which have Python pre-installed (i.e. OS X and most modern Linux
distributions).

Python
------

Pylint now adds symbolic error IDs to its errors instead of numeric IDs.  To
revert to tthe old numeric IDs set the new option
`flycheck-pylint-use-symbolic-id` to `nil`.

ReStructuredText
----------------

Do not inhibit the simple `rst` checker in Sphinx projects anymore.  Hence
Flycheck now falls back to the simple `rst` syntax checker if `rst-sphinx` is
disabled.

Rust
----

Add a new `rust-cargo` syntax checker which invokes the Rust compiler through
Rust’s package management tool Cargo in Cargo projects.  This should improve
discovery of dependencies installed via Cargo when checking Rust code.

Error display and error list
============================

Flycheck now uses custom uniform fringe indicators shaped like a double arrow
for all errors.  This reduces the fringe clutter and makes it easier to identify
Flycheck errors in the fringe.

When moving the mouse pointer over an error location Flycheck now shows the
messages of all errors under the pointer in the tooltip and includes the error
ID as well.  The new option `flycheck-help-echo-function` lets you customise the
contents of the tooltip.

The error list now properly aligns multiline error messages in the message
column.

Executables and commands (NixOS support)
========================================

Flycheck provides two new options to enable integration with NixOS’ peculiar way
of handling packages and executables:

- `flycheck-command-wrapper-function` lets you modify the command Flycheck is
  about to execute immediately before invocation.
- `flycheck-executable-find` lets you customise how Flycheck searches for
  executables.

With regards to NixOS you can use the former to prepend the `nix-shell` to the
command and the latter to search for executables in the current Nix environment.
Likewise you could use these options to run commands through `bundle exec` or
search executables in Python virtualenvs.

Obtain the new release
======================

The new release should be on MELPA Stable within the next hours.  Note that we
do **not** release to Marmalade anymore.  If you still use this archive we
strongly encourage you to migrate to MELPA Stable.

Update as usual through `M-x list-packages`.  We recommend that you restart
Emacs after an upgrade.

We hope that you like the new release.  We welcome your feedback.  Please report
any issues and problems to [issue tracker][], and take a look at our [backlog][]
to see what exciting things we plan for the next release.

[issue tracker]: https://github.com/flycheck/flycheck/issues
[backlog]: https://waffle.io/flycheck/flycheck
